## Member: 
* Matthew Orubina 
## Data Chosen: 
* Nobel Laureates (nobel_laureates.csv) 
## Design Overview: 
I decided to use the Nobel Laureates dataset in my design because I was interested in evaluating the demographics of the different Nobel Peace Prize recipients over the years. My objective was to create an interactive visualization that would show the user how the recipients are represented when placed into different categories. To do this I utilized a bubble graph because of its ability to use positioning, proportions, and color to convey relationships, which is effective for hypervariate data. My visualization can effectively answer analytical questions about the proportions of winners in certain categories.

When the user first encounters the graph, they’re presented with various bubbles in red and green to represent each of the Nobel Prize winners, where red represents the recipients who have died and green represents the recipients that are still living. The user is also given the ability to select checkboxes to filter the data based on gender, category, and age. The gender checkbox separates the female and male recipients into horizontal groups. The category checkbox separates the recipients vertically into six Nobel prize classifications consisting of Chemistry, Economics, Physics, Literature, Psychology, and Medicine that are based on the specific Nobel Peace Prize they received. The user is also given the ability to activate multiple checkboxes simultaneously to help them interpret and better assess the relationship between gender and the five classifications. The age checkbox changes the proportions of the circles, where the size of the circle increases depending on the age the recipient received the award. Finally, I included tooltips so that the user can get specific information on a given recipient once they hover over a bubble on the graph. 
